# Assign 2
Reinforcement Learning: Gridworld Assignment

📘 Overview
This project explores how fundamental Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms perform in a small 5×5 Gridworld environment. 
The objective is to estimate state values and derive optimal policies using:

Dynamic Programming methods

Monte Carlo methods

Experiments are conducted in two different settings:

Infinite-horizon (non-episodic) gridworld

Episodic gridworld with terminal states

🗺️ Environment Details
Grid Size: 5x5 (25 states)

Actions: Up, Down, Left, Right

Special States:

Blue: +5 reward, jumps to Red

Green: +2.5 reward, jumps to Red or Yellow (50/50)

Red / Yellow: Normal behavior

Step Reward:

Valid move: 0

Invalid (off-grid) move: -0.5

Discount Factor (γ): 0.95

⚙️ Algorithms Implemented
Part 1 – Dynamic Programming
Policy Evaluation:

Bellman Equation (solved via linear algebra)

Iterative Policy Evaluation

Policy Optimization:

Brute-force Policy Improvement

Policy Iteration

Value Iteration

Part 2 – Monte Carlo Methods (Episodic Environment)
MC Control with Exploring Starts

MC Control with ε-Soft Policy

Off-Policy MC Control using Importance Sampling

📊 Key Observations
Blue state always has the highest value across all methods due to its high immediate reward.

Value Iteration converged faster than Policy Iteration.

Among MC methods, ε-soft policy gave the best performance (max V ≈ 4.6).

Off-policy control worked well but was more sensitive to variance in importance sampling.

📁 Files
Assign2_RL.ipynb – All code and visualizations are included in this Jupyter notebook.

▶️ How to Run
Clone this repo or open the notebook via GitHub.

Run all cells in order.

Requirements:

numpy

matplotlib

pandas

seaborn

bash
Copy
Edit
pip install numpy matplotlib pandas seaborn
📌 Conclusion
This project demonstrates how different RL strategies affect convergence and policy quality even in simple environments. 
It’s a practical exercise in applying foundational RL concepts using tabular methods.
